Are you preparing to give your third
speech within level one of the Pathways
program? I love this speech because it
incorporates two incredibly important
speaking fundamentals, and that is vocal
variety and body language. And in this
video, I'm going to tell you everything
you need to know to get prepared for
this speech. So for level one, speech
three, you can choose whether you want
to focus on body language, on vocal
variety, or both of those things. And
it's a 5 to 7 minute speech. In a few of
my other videos, I've talked about these
three numbers, 55,
38,7. What this boils down to is the
percentage of how a message is
communicated.
55 represents 55% of a message being
based on body language. 38% being vocal
variety and only 7% of how a message is
communicated is through the actual words
that we speak. So if you do the math
that means
93% of how a message is communicated and
understood has to do with body language
and vocal variety.
not the words that we're actually
saying. And this takes a while to wrap
our brains around, but if you think
about it, I could say this sentence two
times. I'm super happy right now.
I'm having the best time ever
enjoying creating this video for all of
you.
Or I'm super happy right now. I am
having the best time creating this video
for all of you to watch. Those two
sentences were very similar, but in the
first, you knew I probably wasn't
telling the truth, and in the second, it
was clear that I was sincere and that I
am actually enjoying making this video.
And that goes to show how body language
and how people's facial expressions and
gestures really are the most important
thing when it comes to communicating a
message. And this should translate to
your speeches as well. If you're trying
to think about what content you should
focus on in this speech, I would say
think of a great story that you've told
friends or family members in the past.
And bonus points if there's some sort of
dramatic arc to the story where maybe
there's yelling or some crazy thing
happens and somebody runs by and there's
a lot of body movement in that story.
Anything that you can lean on that
you've already told in the past that
you're familiar with that had an element
of vocal variety or body language in
that personal story of yours. That is
something you should try to leverage for
this particular speech. Now, when it
comes to vocal variety, there are a few
different things to keep in mind. Things
like volume, pace, and tone. Your median
volume, meaning the average volume you
use throughout the full speech, should
be loud enough so that the entire room
can hear what you are saying. From there
you can increase the volume if something
really exciting
happens or you can decrease the volume
if something sad or more serious
happens. And you can do the same thing
with tempo or pace. When you are running
through traffic trying to find a cab so
that you can make it to the airport in
time to catch your flight. You can speed
up the cadence of your voice, which
makes people feel like they're there
with
you. But when you get to the airport and
you realize it's too late, you missed
your
flight, you're not going to get home on
time, that's when you can decrease your
voice for those sad or downward
trajectories in the story to again allow
the audience to immerse themselves. And
by using these techniques, you capture
and recapture the audience's attention
throughout your entire speech. When it
comes to body language, one of the
biggest mistakes I've seen in this level
one speech number three speech that many
toast masters have given is that they
really try to force it when it comes to
body language. They'll be talking about
playing baseball and then they're
purposefully looking at everyone and
making an awkward swinging motion as
they're talking about baseball. I don't
know what that swing was, by the way.
That looked like a golf club swing.
Anyways, more of a baseball swing would
be like that, but I didn't want to hit
my mic. But there's these awkward
movements or moments, and it shouldn't
be that way. The body language you
incorporate should add substance to your
speech and it should come across as
natural. What you want to do is you want
to have a steady starting position and
avoid body language mistakes. Some of
these mistakes include putting hands in
pockets or swaying back and forth or
tapping your foot
or keeping your hands clasped and sort
of distracting.
Your hands should be to your side and
your feet should be planted. And then
when it makes sense, you should make
purposeful movements with your body that
again add to the story without being
cringy or forced. These should be
natural additions to your speech.
Another thing to remember is that facial
expressions are body language. And
sometimes it doesn't take a big dramatic
movement to add a lot of emphasis to a
speech. It could be a simple eyebrow
raise looking at the audience to get an
expression or a wink or a smile. And
these strategic facial expressions can
often be as powerful as any other type
of body language movement in your
speech. Now, a housekeeping piece. If
you are taking on this particular
speech, ensure that you provide your
evaluator with the correct forms
because, as I mentioned, you have
options. You can just focus on vocal
variety, just focus on body language, or
choose to focus on both. And what I
would suggest is if you're a newer
Toastmaster, less experienced, feel free
to pick one of those things because what
you need to realize is these two
elements, vocal variety and body
language, are two of the most important
things to master when it comes to public
speaking. And so I wouldn't rush through
this particular thing and try to cram it
in if you're not an experienced speaker.
take on one of these and really focus on
it. Focus on purposeful vocal variety or
purposeful body language. And if you're
a more experienced speaker, then of
course, by all means, try to take on
both of these things as it really helps
your speech when you can incorporate
effectively both of these elements. Now,
for those of you who have been following
along with my channel, you'll know that
I've been giving these videos on how to
prepare for the speech. And then I've
actually been doing the speech myself at
my local club and recording it. I am
going to be giving this level one speech
number three very soon at my local club
and I'll be sure to upload it to my
channel. And it is about a chance
encounter with musicians that I idolized
when I was in college 20 years ago,
which is mind-blowing to think that that
much time has passed since
then. But it's a good story that
involves the opportunity for both vocal
variety and body language. So, I'm going
to try to incorporate both of those
things. So, stay tuned to my channel for
that upcoming video. Thank you so much
for watching this video. If you have not
already subscribed and turned on
notifications, please do that so you
never miss another one of my videos. And
there's going to be a video popping up
on your screen right now, and I
encourage you to check this one out
because I go deeper into why body
language is so important. So, I'll see
you on that